1. How to backup Jenkins ?
Use a Plugin: If you want Jenkins to automatically back up itself, you can install a plugin called ThinBackup. It will let you schedule backups and make things easier.
                                   (or)
								   
For Windows: Open File Explorer, navigate to the Jenkins folder, and simply copy it to another location like an external drive or cloud storage.								   


2. What is CI/CD explain it?
It is the process of automating the building and testing of code , each time one of the team member commits changes of version control.


3. What is the purpose of pipeline in Jenkins ?
a pipeline in Jenkins is like a set of instructions or a recipe that tells Jenkins how to automatically build, test, and deploy your code whenever changes are made.

4. How many different jobs are there in Jenkins?
          1. Freestyle Project.
		  2. Maven Project.
		  3. Pipeline.
		  4. Multi-Configuration Project
		  5. Folder
		  6. Multi Branch Pipeline
		  7. Organization Folder



5. How do you configure Jenkins to automatically build a project , when code is push to a git repository  (then pipeline should be triggered)?
 By Using WebHook we can configure Jenkins to automatically build a project.


6. What are different types of triggers we have ?
          5 Types :
		       1. Trigger builds remotely 
			   2. Build after other projects are built
			   3. Build Periodically
			   4. Github hook trigger for GIT SCM Polling 
			   5. Poll SCM


7. What is the purpose of Poll SCM ?
 Poll SCM in Jenkins is a feature that allows Jenkins to check for changes in your Source Code Management (SCM) system (like Git, SVN, etc.) 
 at regular intervals. If Jenkins detects that there have been changes in the code, it will trigger a build job automatically.


8. How do you configure a tomcat server to run on different port on default port number ?
To configure a Tomcat server to run on a different port instead of the default port (which is 8080), 
you need to modify the configuration file for Tomcat's HTTP connector.

9. How do you check tomcat server is running or not ?
         1. Check via Web Browser (Simple Method)
		 2. sudo systemctl status tomcat

10. What are the main files in tomcat ?


11. What are the lifecycle phases in Maven ?


12. What is setting.xml file in maven used for ?
 The settings.xml file in Maven is a configuration file used to define various settings for Maven builds, such as repository locations, 
 authentication credentials, proxy settings, and build profiles.
 
Location of settings.xml:
There are typically two locations where the settings.xml file can exist:

Global Settings:
Located in the $MAVEN_HOME/conf/ directory, this file contains settings that apply to all users on the system.

User-specific Settings:
Located in the ~/.m2/ directory (on Linux/macOS) or C:\Users\<username>\.m2\ (on Windows), this file contains user-specific
 configurations and overrides any global settings.

13. How do configure a database in JBoss ?
14. After deploying a war file in jboss it is not accessing you will get 404 error. how can you resolve it.
15. Have you ever configure SSN Certification and enabled in jboss for your application.
16. Which command is used to find folder or something in Linux.
17. can i give permissions to only specific job for an user in Jenkins ?   



1. What is difference between git & github
2. How much amount of file will be stored in github 
3. What are the commands you used in git 
4. How to change branch name 
5. When the files are tracked in git 
6. I have 10 files and 4 files are tracked & I want to do some changes in 4 files & I want to add those 4 files 
7. How to change commit message 
8. How to chnage the 10th commit ID 
9. What is git reflog
10. What is git rebase
11. What is a head in git 
12. I have 10 commit ID 5 are Unwanted ID's and you need to delete those 5 ID's 
13. What is a maven
14. What is mvn deploy
15. What is mvn package
16. How we have to deploy Java Base application using what ever the tools you have mention me now
17. What is difference between Jar & War files 
18. What is Pom.xml file
19. Using Jenkins what you done till now
20. What are the Plugins you install till now in Jenkins 
21. How to change port number of Jenkins
22. What is home directory of Jenkins 
23. What is inside the workspace 
24. What are parameters you used in Jenkins 
25. Do you know node configuration
26. What are pipelines you used 
27. What is Declerative pipeline 